# Smalt Starfish Group 38 - SE750/CS732 Project

# Documentation

Welcome to Smalt - A Spotify Music Alternative Listening Technology.

## Overview
Smalt is essentially a Web Application utilising the Spotify API to create playlists established by hosts and for guests to contribute towards the playlist created. Songs added to the playlist by the Guests of the party, will be queued based on the number of likes each song receives i.e. the songs at the top of the playlist would have received the highest number of likes. 

## Features
* Multiple 'rooms' can be created to host multiple parties.
* Screen resolution - scales to size regardless of device whether it be a Smart Phone or Tablet.  
* Voting - Guest can 'Like' a song based on their personal preferences.
* Hosts don't need to manually queue songs based on guests preferences - Smalt takes care of this. 
* Guests can request the same song to be played multiple times. 

## Deployment Instructions
1. Open a new Terminal window and enter the following to clone the Project repository: $ git clone https://github.com/jshi213/Smalt.git
2. After cloning the repository, navigate to the Smalt folder: $ cd Smalt
3. Install all the required dependencies and packages using the following command: $ npm install 
4. Run the project on your local machine: $ npm run dev
5. Navigate to localhost:3000 in your browser 

## How to Use

### Host
1. Click on 'HOST A PLAYLIST'.
2. Agree to the Terms and Conditions imposed by Spotify.
3. Enter a Username.
4. After entering a Username, you will be greeted to a page that shows the Room Code.
5. Guests will be able to enter this code from their end. 
6. Songs will begin to be added to a playlist shown on screen, based on the number of likes each song receives from highest to lowest. 

### Guests
1. Click on 'JOIN A PLAYLIST'.
2. Enter the Room Code that is generated by the Host.
3. Simply search for songs and start adding them to the playlist.
4. 'Like' the songs by preference, by clicking on the Heart on the right hand side and based on the number of likes from all the guests, it will show on the Host's playlist. 

## Meeting Minutes
### 01/04/21 - Zoom meeting
* Decided on app layout
* Made initial Figma wireframes
* Discussed GitHub workflow
* Spoke about how we would manage around timezone differences
* Made initial commit onto repo

### 07/04/21 - Zoom meeting
* Assigned roles to team members
- Pranesh - Database Schema and Queries set up
- Joel - Host project on Heroku
- Josh - Assist with frontend
- JingWei - Design homepages for host and user

### 16/04/21 - Zoom meeting
* Create issues on GitHub by Joel



### 21/04/21 - Zoom meeting
* Spotify Authentication and login responsibility 
* Agreed to meet at Uni on Sunday 25/04/21 to work on the project
* Added more issues to be worked on 

### 25/04/21 - In-person & Zoom meeting
* Discussed issues with backend
* Added more issues to be worked on
* We felt it was necessary to change the methodology from Software Development Lifecycle to Agile Methodology

### 01/05/21 - In-person & Zoom meeting
* Discussed Spotify API documentation and the endpoints required
* Database having issues with saving songs to database
* Merged outstanding pull requests

### 05/05/21 - In-person & Zoom meeting
* Andrew's Canvas announcements today
- Decided Heroku is not necessary for deployment 
- Agreed on a mutual time to present the project in class
* Refactor of code
* Songs not playing

### 09/05/21 - In-person & Zoom meeting
* Refactor of code
* Fix any bugs
* Play/pause/stop functionality to be added
* Submitted the assignment

## Tasks Breakdown

| Joel Shin                | Josh Burton                       | Jingwei Min                | Pranesh Chand                                      |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Create issues on GitHub  | Spotify login and authentication  | Design pages for frontend  | Database Connection & Schema Setup           |
| Content Cell             | Content Cell                      | Content Cell               | Intialisation of Db Queries                  |
| Content Cell             | Content Cell                      | Content Cell               | Write README.md file                         |
| Content Cell             | Content Cell                      | Content Cell               | Write Wiki on GitHub Repo                    |
| Content Cell             | Content Cell                      | Content Cell               | Refactor Axios requests into seperate files  |

